In the current lesson, we will finalize the base class - we will make a respawn.
And from the next lesson, let's start implementing specific pickup classes. We need a property that
will store the respawn time, that is, the time after which the pickup will appear again on the scene
after we took it. We name the variable RespawnTime. Let the default be five seconds.
Let's create two helper functions. The first one will be called PickupWasTaken.
It will be called when we pick up the pickup. The second function will be called Respawn.
It will be called when the respawn timer is triggered.
We create a body for each function.
We will be using CollisionComponent, let's add check.
Instead of calling the Destroy function, we will call the PickupWasTaken function.
We will not remove the pickup from the scene, but we will make it invisible.
Let's go to the PickupWasTaken function. Before making our actor invisible, we must turn off all collisions
so that the BeginOverlap event does not fire.
To do this, let's call the SetCollisionResponeToAllChannels function.
And as a parameter, we pass the ECollisionResponse :: ECR_Ignore element.
That is, the collision will stop interacting with the outside world. After that we can make
our actor invisible. We get a pointer to the root component of the actor. We call the GetRootComponent function.
To stop rendering the actor, we will call a function called SetVsibility.
It has two parameters. The first boolean parameter is responsible for whether the current component will be rendered or not.
And the second parameter is responsible for whether the new
Visibility value will be applied to all child components, that is, in this way
we stop rendering all the components of our actor. Let's add a check of the root component
for nullptr, but in general the situation when the root component is nullptr in pickup is impossible.
After we have disabled the collision and made our pickup invisible,
we can start the respawn timer. The TimerHandle variable will be local to us.
The timer will only fire once. We will not turn off the timer,
so there is no need to create handle as a member-class variable.
When the timer expires, the respawn function is called and in this function
you need to return the collision settings and make the actor visible. Change the parameter to ECR_Overlap.
And pass true to SetVsibility.
We start the game. Let's open the console.
Let's enter the ShowCollision command to see our collisions.
Let's pick up some ammo. The Actor did not leave, became invisible. This can be observed by collision.
When the actor is invisible and we cross the collision, the pickup was taken message is not displayed in the log.
And every five seconds pickups appear again and we can take them.
The respawn logic is working correctly. It remains to take the last step before starting the development of specific pickups -
create a virtual function that we will override in the health pickup and in the weapon pickup.
Let's call the function GivePickupTo. The function will return true if we managed to
take pickup and false, if under some conditions it did not work. The function will have one parameter - a
pointer to pawn. Through this pointer, we will access the health and weapon components,
through which we will modify the character data, depending on the pickup. In the base class,
this function will return false. Roughly speaking, pickup of the base class is simply impossible to take.
Let's go to the NotifyActorBeginOverlap function. Create a local variable - a pointer to pawn.
We cast the actor, which came to us as a function parameter to the pawn class.
Next, we call the GivePickupTo function. We can call it immediately in the if statement.
We pass as a parameter pawn.
And if we managed to pick up the pickup, then we call the PickupWasTaken function.
The log can be deleted. We will now add additional logs in specific classes.
Let's override the GeviPickupTo function in the health pickup class.
Add the override keyword to preserve the coding style.
We also add this function to the ammp pickup header file.
Let's create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
The function is empty for now, let it return true.
Add a log to ammo pickup. Copying from base pickup.
Replace base with ammo.
We will output to the log: ammo was taken.
Copy the body of the function with the category of logging. We insert into the health pickup.
Replace the class name.
Change the logging category to LogHealthPickup.
And we output health was taken.
Checking what happened.
We start the game. We take missiles. Reprinted: ammo was taken. We take lives. It is printed: health was taken.
That is, our next task is to implement the GivePickupTo functions for specific pickup classes.